Additional algorithm to organ harvesting:
Stealing from prisoner and donating from one should give different thoughts.
Additional thoughts related to organ donations, and family members' reactions when receiving donation, etc.

Refinement of Human Meat treatment:
Colonists wouldnt know, but certain conditions (e.g. Gourmand) will trigger a Stark Realization
SR will apply the debuff 1.5x strong and 1.5x long, etc.

Algorithm for Memory recall:
Everyone will be able to remember something from the past from time to time.
Bad mood will tend to cause bad memories to resurface, and vice versa.
Older people can have more memory recalled at the same time.

Revival
A whole basket of thoughts, just like "Pawn Died"

Inside-Job Assasination
(Credits: u/Muznick)
Pawns may lie about other events if they determine that it is OK for them to lie.
Lying strength mainly depends on social skill
This opens up playstyle where undesirables are silently purged one by one.

Additional (Misc?) Thoughts
(Credits: u/uglychip)
Made something impressive
Psychic drone relief

Additional need: Social
All humanlike pawns have a new need: Social
The Social need is just similar to Rest, Food, and Joy need.
Social need has Social Fulfillment
SF naturally decays to Base Level; Base Level is normally 0
SF naturally (but only slowly) decreases (to represent the human nature of being a social animal)
Net Social Fulfillment (NSF) = Absolute Social Fulfillment (ASF) - Base Level (BL)
+ve SF levels gives mood bonus, while -ve SF levels gives mood penalty
Neutral and positive social interactions give positive SF; others give negative SF
Having more friends (and, by extension, family members), *decreases* the Base Level, while having more rivals *increases* the Base Level
Opinions towards pawns will magnify the SF offset of the interactions. Preferrably, friends and families produce more positive SF deltas, while rivals produce more negative SF deltas.
New Mental Break: Social Anxiety: SF decrement rate is increased; Base Level is negatively offset
New Mental Break: Demotivation: social interactions no longer gives SF deltas.
Modify Mental Break: Hide in Room: SF decay rate moderately increased

Refinement mechanics: Forgetfulness
Each TaleNews has a Relevance value to a Pawn
Relevance can be influenced by many factors subject to discussion
Over time, the TN with low Relevance are forgotten
"Forgotten" TN can be Remembered; such remembrance generates a thought with less strength and duration compared to the original thought

Refinement mechanics: Information Confidence
If a colonist receives a TN first-hand, such TN will always have a 100% Confidence
(Maybe the 100% confidence is not permanent; but that's another story)
When spreading TN, the spreader will have an option to lie about the TN
The chance of lying can depend on several factors; one might be the Severity, another might be the Estimated Relevance calculated by the spreader, yet another could be Opinion
The receiver of TN will then also have a chance to determine if the spreader is lying
If the lie is not discovered, the TN Confidence will get a 100% rating, else 0%.
The Confidence rating from lies can be further adjusted based on social skills, etc.
Each colonist will have his own "Information Confidence Average"
A 50% ICA goves 0 mood delta; the more the ICA deviates from 50%, the stronger the directed mood delta is for the colonist
The colonist will get the "Information confidence (v.strong/strong/weak/v.weak)" thought based on his ICA

Multiplayer and What Not
Zetrith's Multiplayer
Phi Mod Multiplayer

Additional mechanics affecting faction ratings
Good actions boost relations (duh)
Bad actions reduce relations (duh)
Justified actions depends on context:
Direct quote from u/DoomAngelBlade:
Relationship of a pawn towards faction.



If a FACTION did a raid against colony and destroyed alot of stuff - Colonists should have a mood buff when faction member was killed.

"A murderer just died. World is getting brighter"

"A menace is liberated. Because of that we or someone else might see another day"



Or if a FACTION killed friends/relatives/love of his life/etc. - also add a "REVENGE" against faction, giving a mood boost for each of the faction member killed.

"We clean the world from a trash "FACTION" is"



If there is a "Radio call with a pawn chased" scenario - refusing it would impact negatively on a colonist who hates the faction that chases pawn would impact negatively on mood of a colonist.

"We let those savages get an innocent person"

"We look upon rapists,murderers,thieves,torturers and their actions but do nothing to protect the innocent. We should have helped"

Also add proffession related relationships towards pawns.

I know that there are patients who like to say F U to doctors and do nothing but.

When a doctor just pulls you from death's hands - the first thing that you will do is thank the doctor, not insult him.

Or your love/relative.

"PAWN saved his/her life. I am thankful to PAWN".

"PAWN tried to help him/her, but failed. I still respect PAWN's attempt to make it better"

"PAWN failed to save him/her! That [INSULT of some kind]!"



Or if a piece of defensive equipment that is worn by pawn let's him survive the attack(Flak chests,marine armors,helmets,etc.).

"Because of PAWN's hard work - I will see another day"

"PAWN didn't do this good. Because of him I am hurt"

"He was clearly doing this terrible so I could die"

Alignment, Aspiration, and Faction reputation
ach action taken by your colonists will generate alignment points
enough alignment points, and you gain an aspiration
faction reputation can be reshaped to reflect how they view your ideas. Compatible alignments get higher points, incompatible ones lower points